Explain the class discussion of the difference between a supercomputer and a 9yr old brain. Stating which one would be
1. More powerful
2. More intelligent
3. Operate faster - speed

Then from your analysis of the class discussion summarize your own opinion on the the subject matter while also stating any necessary facts(if any).
Conclude on your final decision on which is more powerful.
The assignment would be type on MS WORD and submitted via email.
         As gathered in the ECP interactive class session, lots of views were aired on the proponents of the human brain's capabilities, with a nine year old as a case study, against the advancing modern day multitasking technology known of supercomputers. Lots of opinions formed the importance of the discuss of the class.
        These opinions came in a number of ways. It was suggested that the nine year old is able to continue learning at a safe, progressive, independent and fast rate, while the supercomputer is set to a static range of programs. In another idea, the supercomputer is said to be very efficient at tasks and the nine year old is prone to mistakes, absentmindedness and a still growing pool of knowledge, no match for a supercomputer in any one specialization. For which it was said that the nine year old would become perfect at task first informed by their passion, and that the supercomputer can only house selected systems and programs, but the nine year old keep pace with any new challenge when properly trained and motivated. The supercomputer, it was argued, benefited from the knowledge of humans, they input into it as problems to solve, software/ programs to house, hardware to contain, and ultimately acting on the command of humans - to say, in all, it follows a human thought process, only more organized, visual and systematic.
         In relation to humans in general, the discussion was the power of the human brain in relation to that of supercomputers, and which operates faster. The human brain is said to have it's will power of instinct, willingness to gather new knowledge and a societal advantage of putting all into good use. A supercomputer can infact be under utilized by its operates and will show no sign of displeasure of this, but a human can feel burdened by self to take up new lines of tasks. The human brain can go up to 48 hours without rest or sleep, but it will be a thing of note if a supercomputer does not get too heated up during same hours or have a cooling system, or better still running on an optimized state involving a completely different set of gadget(s). Part of discussion was in support of the supercomputer being faster since it acts on a command, and serving its operator. In fact, it is always in a ready mode for all specially assigned tasks, for which humans are disadvantaged to the generality of their social lives.
        In my opinion, computers are far from “intelligent” - even software which we call “AI” (Artificial Intelligence) is not yet truly showing anything that we humans would call “intelligence”.
No computer is as intelligent as a frog or a mouse…certainly nowhere close to the intelligence of a dog or a cat. Should a computer or a supercomputer acts with a "mind of its own", it's either faulty or taking up a setup not properly accounted for and hence not expected of it.
        The present generation AI software is amazingly good at specialized tasks. You can “train” them to be far better than a human at (say) playing the game of “Chess”. But the computer that does that couldn’t write a poem or hold a conversation with a human being.
         There has been a recent announcement of a computer “AI” that can hold a phone conversation with a human to book a table at a restaurant - but its abilities would fall apart if the human at the other end of phone asked the computer whether Santa Claus is real or not.
         They are insanely good at small tasks - but truly awful at generalities.
         The idea of a “General Artificial Intelligence” is still as far away as it was in the 1960’s when researchers began thinking they could make that happen in 20 years. Supercomputers still cannot act in generality in this present dispensation.
          So, no - computers are not more “generally” intelligent than a mouse - possibly not even as intelligent as an insect. But if trained in some very specialized skill - they can be much more capable than a human - and that’s the thing that should scare or bother people in aspect of reduced manpower.
          I could easily believe that a present-generation AI could be trained to become a lawyer - and be better at it than a human lawyer. Possibly sit for lots of cases in a day.
          I could also believe that one could replace a Taxi driver and drive a taxi around a big city (this is already starting to happen). But I don’t believe that the Taxi-driving robot will be able to tell you whether it’s legal to buy and sell shares in a company for which you have insider knowledge - or to compose an opera masterpiece for you as it drives.
           Will it ever happen that a computer is smarter than a human “in general”? I’m not sure.
          Software technology is certainly heading that way - but the amount of computational power needed could be more than 100 large “data centers” could provide - and the speed and size of computers are reaching the limits of physics.
          In conclusion, a nine year old will possibly be more intelligent that a supercomputer, for the fact that it already has the intellect in very active brain cells to champion new innovations and learning. A supercomputer is not more powerful than the human brain, since it's cognitive sense happens in a relay of interconnected systems, gadgets and power sources between computers, to say it should be rightly compared with the combined brain power of its human inventors, operators and system contributors. The major looking given to computers and supercomputers, is more for speed than even efficiency, and humans are a party to watching computers take these mighty leaps in reaction time.

